---
title: "Day 17 - 100 Days of Swift"
tags: 100days swift
excerpt: "Day 17 is the second part of the first project. You add a detail screen to actually display the photos that the user. You add a `detailViewController` to handle the logic for the new screen. And you make a few various tweaks to polish things up a bit."
header:
  image: /assets/images/100days/100-days-header-017.jpg
---
## Project 1 (part 2)
[Day 17](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/17) is the second part of the first project. You add a detail screen to actually display the photos that the user. You add a `detailViewController` to handle the logic for the new screen. And you make a few various tweaks to polish things up a bit.

The first thing you do is make a new subclass of `UIViewController` called `detailViewController`, and then add a `UIViewController` to the Main.storyboard to be the detail view. You set its class and give it a storyboard id. Then you add a `UIImageView` to this and constrain it to fill the screen.
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/100days/2019-05-29-storyboard.jpg" alt="Screenshot of storyboard with new view controller added." %}

Next you add an outlet from the `UIImageView` to the `detailViewController`:
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/100days/2019-05-29-image-view-outlet.jpg" alt="Screenshot of creating an outlet." %}

Then you create a place in `detailViewController` to hold the name of the image it should load:
```swift
var selectedImage: String?
```

Then you adopt a `UITableViewDelegate` method in the `viewController` to make a new `detailViewController` when a cell is tapped on, give it the image name, and then push it on to the navigation stack:
```swift
override func tableView(_ tableView: UITableView,
                          didSelectRowAt indexPath: IndexPath) {
    if let detailViewController = storyboard?
           .instantiateViewController(withIdentifier: "DetailVC")
           as? DetailViewController {
        detailViewController.selectedImage = pictures[indexPath.row]

        navigationController?
            .pushViewController(detailViewController, animated: true)
    }
}
```

Then, back in the `detailViewController`, you add a couple of lines to load the image in `viewDidLoad`:
```swift
if let imageToLoad = selectedImage {
    imageView.image = UIImage(named: imageToLoad)
}
```

At this point the app builds and runs. You can tap on any of the image names in the list and a detail view displaying the image will be pushed in. But you don’t stop here. You go on to polish things up a little bit. You change the content mode of the image view to be “Aspect Fill”:
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/100days/2019-05-29-aspect-fill.jpg" alt="Screenshot of selecting aspect fill content mode." %}

You override a couple of lifecycle methods in the `detailViewController` to allow the navigation controller to hide on taps:
```swift
override func viewWillAppear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillAppear(animated)
    navigationController?.hidesBarsOnTap = true
}

override func viewWillDisappear(_ animated: Bool) {
    super.viewWillDisappear(animated)
    navigationController?.hidesBarsOnTap = false
}
```

You add a couple of lines to the `viewDidLoad` of the `viewController` to give it a title and set it to display as a large title:
```swift
title = "Storm Viewer"
navigationController?.navigationBar.prefersLargeTitles = true
```

And similar lines in `viewDidLoad` of the `detailViewController` to handle the same things:
```swift
title = selectedImage
navigationItem.largeTitleDisplayMode = .never
```
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/100days/2019-05-29-working-app.png" alt="Screenshot of working app." %}
You can find [my version of the project so far on GitHub here](https://github.com/dillon-mce/100-days-swift-projects/tree/863320a960489d16ced58279523e5d56e741a068/Project1).

## Reflections
Boom! I’d call that an  MVP. It is a small and simple little app, but it can do everything we set out for it to do. You get a list of all the pictures available in the app, and you can tap on any of them to view the image. Not the most exciting thing I’ve ever seen. Or even the most exciting thing I’ve ever built. But it is enough for me to check off another day in this process.
