---
title: "Day 67 - 100 Days of Swift"
tags: 100days swift
excerpt: "Day 67 is the first part of the nineteenth project. It will be a Safari extension that allows you to run some JavaScript on the page, but today you pretty much just spend the whole time getting things configured. You make a new project and you make the extension target. You set up the `viewDidLoad` in the extension, configure the `Info.plist` and add a javascript shell file."
header:
  image: /assets/images/100days/100-days-header-067.jpg
---
## Project 19 (part 1)
[Day 67](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/100/67) is the first part of the nineteenth project. It will be a Safari extension that allows you to run some JavaScript on the page, but today you pretty much just spend the whole time getting things configured. You make a new project and you make the extension target. You set up the `viewDidLoad` in the extension, configure the `Info.plist` and add a javascript shell file.

First, because extensions can’t be the app on their own, you make a new app and give it a label that, in real life would probably display some set up instructions or help info, but for this project just says “Hello World”.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/100days/2019-08-10-label.png" alt="Screenshot of placing label on storyboard."%}

Then you add a new Target which is an “Action Extension” called `Extension`. The default template comes with a `MainInterface.storyboard` and an `ActionViewController.swift`. The only thing you change today is to replace the default (and somewhat complicated) code in `viewDidLoad` of `ActionViewController` with this:
```
if let inputItem = extensionContext?.inputItems.first as? NSExtensionItem {
    if let itemProvider = inputItem.attachments?.first {
        itemProvider.loadItem(forTypeIdentifier: kUTTypePropertyList as String) { [weak self] (dict, error) in
            // Do stuff
        }
    }
}
```

 This tries to get the first `inputItem` from the `extensionContext` and cast it as an `NSExtensionItem`. If that is successful, it tries to get the first `NSItemProvider` from the attachments array on the `inputItem`. If that is successful it asks the `itemProvider` to actually load the item and give it to us in a closure with `loadItem`. Inside of that closure is where we’ll actually do stuff tomorrow.

Once that is done, you just add a couple of keys to the `Info.plist`. You add the `NSExtensionActivationSupportsWebPageWithMaxCount` key with the value of "1", to let the system know that we are only interested in receiving web pages. And you add the `NSExtensionJavaScriptPreprocessingFile` key with the value `Action.js` to tell it to run the javascript in `Action.js` when our extension is called.

Finally, you actually add the `Action.js` file to the project and give it this code:
```js
var Action = function() {};

Action.prototype = {

run: function(parameters) {

},

finalize: function(parameters) {

}

};

var ExtensionPreprocessingJS = new Action
```

And that is all for today. I don’t really have a great idea how this will work or what use it will have, but I have never built an action extension before so I am excited to try some of this stuff out and see what it looks like tomorrow.

You can find [my version of this project at the end of day 67 on Github here.](https://github.com/dillon-mce/100-days-swift-projects/tree/c1171b3525f302eb729a31cbadc4ce9fe99bf7f8/Project19)
